Buffer exploits are one of the basic bugs of modern computer science.
They are responsible for glitches in games. They are responsible for all sorts of viruses and exploits,
and they are also responsible for a number of major technical disasters.
During the last 48 hours, at the time of admission, we had one of those technical disasters, namely Heartbleed,
what is a buffer exploit at the core.
I am going to try to explain what that is; the technical people in the audience are likely to cringe
because I make it so strongly, but for the less technical people, for the people
just start programming, or be interested in computers, this is how it works - and to start with, do not worry if you
uses a programming language of a higher level such as JavaScript, or the like,
you do not have to worry about buffer overflows, it is all solved for you in the compiler.
But if you work with C, or even in Fortan - something very basic - well, then buffer overflows
something that you have to adjust for.
So, let's imagine that we have a program - we draw a box here - some program,
and that program wants input, information. This could for example be a huge file of the hard drive,
it may just be some data that comes in, but let's say it's a chain - just some incoming text -
and that chain must be a certain length, so that that program puts a certain amount of memory in front of it
- here, in it - but what comes in is not what it expects.
What comes in is a much longer, or even a bit longer, piece of text than expected.
So instead of this we have this, a little bit more.
And what happens is that, just like a train that runs through the fenders at the end of a platform
and drive into the station, screaming loudly, the program causing some damage.
It will continue to write that chain in memory beyond the end of that reserved memory space.
And that is going to cause crashes, generally it goes
cause an error in the program when looking for data and not
eeeeeeee
nothing finds except what is being typed.
But if you're a smart attacker, if you know what you're doing, if you know what your goal is,
then you can put together a much longer chain - here - that contains all sorts of instructions, all kinds of code,
if you know what that program is looking for then you can continue to write in the program and
to put your own instructions about what is already there.
That is a fairly basic buffer overflow attack.
In the past 48 hours we have had Heartbleed and that is a vulnerability in OpenSSL.
OpenSSL is the open source code that roughly ... let's say half, two-thirds,
in any case handles a very large proportion of global secure internet traffic,
that which is going on between you and online banks, or between you and your private e-mail.
That all goes via OpenSSL.
It is responsible for that little padlock in your browser,
it makes it appear and can say "yes, this is definitely a secure connection",
so a bug in it is a big problem, and it's interesting because it's actually a UNDERflow attack buffer.
And to explain that, I have to explain something called Heartbeat.
For example, I have my computer - here, my laptop - and it talks to a server here
with OpenSSL on it, it can send something called a heartbeat (heartbeat) command.
And the heartbeat command is actually "does this connection live? Does it work?"
It is actually a [HEART RATE SOUND] that alternates between the two.
And the heartbeat command works like this: I send some data and the server sends it back to me.
So I say, "here is the word HEART, send it back to me," and the server does that.
But that is not exactly how it works.
What I am sending "here is the word HEART, it is four bytes long, please send those four bytes back to me."
And that's what the server does. It receives them and sends them back immediately.
But the problem is, with specifically this version of OpenSSL,
if you would say "here is the word HEART, it is 64,000 characters long"
Well ... OpenSSL is not going to check if that's right.
Instead it opens a small buffer, the word HART stops there,
and then it sends back what else it can find.
It will continue to read that buffer, even though that buffer has ended.
It will read 64,000 of what it is thinking about at the time and it will send it back to me.
And that is dangerous, because those 64,000 might well contain very personal data.
It could contain session tokens that cause you to act as other users on the site,
or it could contain private keys - the big cryptic numbers that say the server is who he claims to be.
If you could get their private keys you could pretend to be them.
You could pretend to be who this server is: Google, the government, an online bank
- you could get those numbers, get them out of memory by happiness, or by being smart
and, well, you can then pretend to them.
And that is a horrible bug for the internet, so for the last 48 hours there are a lot of server administrators
desperately updating to ensure that their version is the new, modified version.
So, that is it, that is a buffer overflow, or a buffer underflow in this case, and that is Heartbleed.
But one more thing. If you want to be paranoid, and I want to emphasize that I am not paranoid about this,
I believe very much in 'stupidity over collusion', but, if you want to be paranoid, think about it:
that bug has not been repaired for two years. Has anyone else seen him and did not let it know?
And has that person since then been quietly obtaining information?
Or if you really want to be very paranoid, and again I emphasize that I am not, but if you really want to be very paranoid ...
... who put that bug in the first place?
Translated by Alexander